# Twig Syntax

From [Twig in Drupal 8](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/theming/twig):
> Twig is a template engine for PHP and it is part of the Symfony2 framework.
>
> In Drupal 8 Twig replaces PHPTemplate as the default templating engine. One of the results of this change is that all of the theme_* functions and PHPTemplate based `*.tpl.php` files have been replaced by `*.html.twig` template files.

## Printing Variables and Functions

Twig uses `{{ }}` syntax to output data.

- `{{ 3 }}` will output the integer `3`.
- `{{ 'xyz' }}` will output the string `xyz`
- `{{ myvar }}` will output the variable `myvar`
- `{{ someFunction }}` will output the results of `someFunction()`
- `{{ someFunction(foo, bar) }}` will out put the results of `someFunction(foo, bar)`

### Arrays and Objects

Array items and object properties/methods can be accessed using a dot (`.`):

```twig
{{ foo.0 }}
{{ foo.bar }}
{{ foo.method }}
{{ foo.method(baz) }}
```

This allows themers to not worry about variable types, and just output the data.

Array items can also be accessed using the subscript syntax (`[]`):

```twig
{{ foo[0] }}
{{ foo['bar'] }}
```

From [Twig for Template Designers](http://twig.sensiolabs.org/doc/2.x/templates.html):
> For convenience's sake `foo.bar` does the following things on the PHP layer:
>
> - check if `foo` is an array and `bar` a valid element;
if not, and if `foo` is an object, check that `bar` is a valid property;
> - if not, and if `foo` is an object, check that `bar` is a valid method (even if `bar` is the constructor - use `__construct()` instead);
> - if not, and if `foo` is an object, check that `getBar` is a valid method;
> - if not, and if `foo` is an object, check that `isBar` is a valid method;
> - if not, and if `foo` is an object, check that `hasBar` is a valid method;
> - if not, return a `null` value.
>
> `foo['bar']` on the other hand only works with PHP arrays:
>
> - check if `foo` is an array and `bar` a valid element;
> - if not, return a `null` value.

If you need access a dynamic attribute:

```twig
{{ attribute(foo, 'data-foo') }}
```

## Executing Statements

Twig uses `{% %}` syntax to execute statements.

### Setting Variables

```twig
{% set x = 123 %}
{% set name = 'Name: !name'|t('!name', list.name) %}
```

### Conditionally Outputting a Region

```twig
{% if message %}
 <div class="message">{{ message }}</div>
{% endif %}
```

### Looping

```twig
<ul>
{% for item in list %}
  <li>{{ item.title }}: ${{item.price}}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

## Commenting

Twig uses `{# #}` syntax for comments.

```twig
{# Comments go inside these brackets. #}
```

You can also do multiline comments:

```twig
{#
  This comment spans
  multiple lines.
#}
```

A notable use for this is the twig file DocBlock. For example:

```twig
{#
/**
 * @file
 * Default theme implementation for a region.
 *
 * Available variables:
 * - content: The content for this region, typically blocks.
 * - attributes: Remaining HTML attributes for the element, including:
 *   - class: HTML classes that can be used to style contextually through CSS.
 *
 * @see template_preprocess_region()
 *
 * @ingroup themeable
 */
#}
```

### Filters

Filters can be used to modify variables and expressions.

```twig
{{ "Some String"|t }}
```

Here are some common Drupal-specific filters:

- `trans`/`t`: Runs variable through Drupal `t()` function. (Note: Do not pass variables through the translation filter as this is a potential security vulnerability.)
- `placeholder`: Escapes content to HTML and passes through `drupal_placeholder()`, which emphasizes text (i.e. `<em>foo</em>`).
- `clean_class`: Prepares a string for use as a class name.
- `clean_id`: Prepares a string for use as an id.
- `format_date`: Prepares a timestamp for use as a formatted date.
- `raw`: Marks value as being safe which means no escaping will take place. This should be avoided if possible.
- `render`: Wrapper for the `render()` function.
- `safe_join`: Joins several strings together with a specified separator (e.g. `{{ foo|safe_join(':') }}`)
- `without`: Duplicates an array, excluding specified keys (e.g. `{{ foo|without('bar', 'baz') }}`)

#### Twig {% trans %} tag

From [Drupal.org - Added support for the Twig {% trans %} tag extension](https://www.drupal.org/node/2047135):

> The Twig {% trans %} block will translate the text using tokens with t() or format_plural() if the {% plural ... %} switch has been declared in the tag:

```twig
<p class="submitted">
{% trans %}
  Submitted by {{ author.name }} on {{ node.date }}
{% endtrans %}
</p>
```

With the `{% plural ... %}` switch:

```twig
{% set count = comments|length %}
{% trans %}
  {{ count }} comment was deleted successfully.
{% plural count %}
  {{ count }} comments were deleted successfully.
{% endtrans %}
```

If filtering the tokens inside the {% trans %} block does not work, create a token outside of the block to minimize operations inside.

```twig
{% set date = node.created|format_date('medium') %}
{% trans %}
  Node was created on {{ date }}.
{% endtrans %}
```

## Macros

From [Twig's official macro documentation](http://twig.sensiolabs.org/doc/2.x/tags/macro.html):

> Macros are comparable with functions in regular programming languages. They are useful to put often used HTML idioms into reusable elements to not repeat yourself.

Here is a small example of a macro that renders a form element:

```twig
{% macro input(name, value, type, size) %}
   <input type="{{ type|default('text') }}" name="{{ name }}" value="{{ value|e }}" size="{{ size|default(20) }}" />
{% endmacro %}
```

> Macros differ from native PHP functions in a few ways:
>
> - Default argument values are defined by using the default filter in the macro body;
> - Arguments of a macro are always optional.
> - If extra positional arguments are passed to a macro, they end up in the special `varargs` variable as a list of values.
>
> [//]: # (This comment is needed to end the list.)
> But as with PHP functions, macros don't have access to the current template variables.

## Additional Resources

- [drupal.org: Twig in Drupal 8](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/theming/twig)
- [drupal.org: Twig Coding Standards](https://www.drupal.org/docs/develop/coding-standards/twig-coding-standards)
- [drupal.org: Filters - Modifying Variables In Twig Templates](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/theming/twig/filters-modifying-variables-in-twig-templates)
- [weebpal.com: Drupal 8 Theming Essential Guide](https://www.weebpal.com/blog/drupal-8-theming)
- [sqndr.github.io: Twig Debug](https://sqndr.github.io/d8-theming-guide/twig/twig-debug.html)
- [twig.sensiolabs.org: macro](http://twig.sensiolabs.org/doc/2.x/tags/macro.html)

---

##### [<< Previous Page](3.2-theming-concepts.md) | [Next Page >>](3.4-twig-templates.md)
