# Plugin API

From [Plugin API Overview](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/api/plugin-api/plugin-api-overview):
> Plugins are small pieces of functionality that are swappable. Plugins that perform similar functionality are of the same plugin type.
>
> Drupal contains many different plugins, of different types. For example, 'Field widget' is a plugin type, and each different field widget type is a plugin. The admin user may select from the list of field widget plugins to set the widget that a field uses.
>
> The D8 plugin system provides a set of guidelines and reusable code components to allow developers to expose pluggable components within their code and (as needed) support managing these components through the user interface.
>
> Plugins are defined by modules: a module may provide plugins of different types, and different modules may provide their own plugins of a particular type.

## Plugin Elements

- **Plugin Types** are the controlling class defining discovery and instantiation of plugins of that type.

A plugin type should have a meaningful name as to describe the purpose of plugins of that type (e.g. Cache Backend, or Block)

- **Plugin Discovery** is the process of finding plugins in the code base.

  Plugin discovery types, from [Drupal 8 Plugin Discovery](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/api/plugin-api/d8-plugin-discovery):
  > 1. `StaticDiscovery` allows for direct registration of plugins within the discovery class itself. A protected variable (`$definitions`) in the class holds all plugin definitions that are registered with it through the public method `setDefinition()`. Any plugin defined through this method can then be invoked as outlined in the plugin manager documentation.
  >
  > 2. `HookDiscovery` allows Drupal's `hook_component_info()`/`hook_component_info_alter()` pattern to be used for plugin discovery. With this discovery, the plugin manager will invoke info hooks to retrieve a list of available plugins.
  >
  > 3. `AnnotatedClassDiscovery` uses name of the annotations that contains the plugin definition, e.g., `@Plugin`, `@EntityType`, in plugin docblocks to discover plugins, minimizing memory usage during the discovery phase. The `AnnotatedClassDiscovery` class takes an argument in its constructor, `$subdir`, which specifies the sub-directory/sub-namespace for this plugin type. The `AnnotatedClassDiscovery` class scans PSR-4 classes inside those sub-directories of Plugin folders to find plugins (see a "Annotations-based plugins").
  >
  > 4. `YamlDiscovery` allows plugins to be defined in yaml files. Drupal core uses this for local tasks and local actions.

- **Plugin Factory** instantiates specific plugins.

## Annotations-based Plugins

Assume you are adding a `Constraint` plugin ([see detailed example here](https://www.drupal.org/node/1882526))

Register your plugin by placing it in a file relative to your module root, (e.g. `src/Plugin/Constraint/UserNameUnique.php`).

```php
<?php
/**
 * @Constraint(
 *   id = "UserNameUnique",
 *   label = @Translation("User name unique", context = "Validation"),
 * )
 */
class UserNameUnique extends Constraint {
// ...
}
?>
```

*Important Note: Unlike other PHP coding standards, annotations should always use double quotes instead of single quotes.*

## Additional Resources
- [drupal.org: Plugin API](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/api/plugin-api)

---

##### [<< Previous Page](4.4-essential-apis.md) | [Next Page >>](4.4-essential-apis-block.md)
